Cats have been domesticated for around 4,000 years. While they were once valued for their hunting abilities, they are now valued for their companionship and loving behaviour.
While not well known, the collective nouns used for cats and kittens are a clowder of cats and a kindle of kittens.
Our domestic cats are known as little cats. They differ from large cats such as lions and tigers because they are naturally active at night and can purr.
Cats are now the most popular pet in the UK and in the US.
Cats have 30 teeth (dogs have 42) and most of us know how sharp they are!
Cats have a reflective layer in their eyes, known as the tapetum lucidum, which magnifies incoming light allowing them to see up to 6 times better than humans can in low light. Cats (as well as dogs) also have a ‘third eyelid’ called the nictitating membrane which is found on the inside corner of the eye which is an extra protective function of the eye.
Cats have 32 muscles in their ears (humans have only 12). This gives the ear mobility, enabling it to precisely locate prey such as mice or the opening of their cat food! Cats can also hear frequencies that are both below and above those that can be heard by humans. The ear also has the job of helping to maintain balance and the ability to right themselves when falling – which is where the phrase “Cats always land on their feet” came from.
More cats are left-pawed than right.
The texture of cat food is more important to cats than taste and cats can often be quite fussy about the smells of food. If your cat have ever licked you, you might compare the feel of their tongue to that of coarse sandpaper – that’s because a cats' tongue is covered in tiny backwards facing thorn like barbs that guide food to the back of the mouth. These rough tongues are also perfectly designed for grooming and lapping up water.
Cats can retract their front claws. This keeps them sharp so they can be used for climbing and of course, as effective weapons!
Cats rub against us and scratch as a form of communication. They have scent glands on their cheeks and paws, so rubbing against us or scratching on vertical surfaces transfers their scent.
Around 75% of cats respond to catnip. This herb stimulates those cats that are genetically programmed to respond.
Those long whiskers around your cats' mouth and face which form a vital part of their sense of touch. These whiskers are attached to nerve cells and are used to judge the size of openings as well as providing your cat information about everything he/she touches, as well as shifts in air pressure.
Cats can travel at speeds of up to 30km per hour.
The largest breed of cat in Australia is the Maine Coon. Males can regularly weigh up to 12kgs!
Cats are good for our health. People who own cats have a lower risk of cardio-vascular disease than non-cat owners. Elderly cat owners suffer less from depression and loneliness than non-cat owners.
Cats can be trained. Teach your cat to share a “high five” with you by rewarding her with a special treat every time she lifts her paw.
Cats need to interact with people from two weeks of age to enable them to be social towards humans. After 16 weeks of age it is very difficult to tame a cat.
Psychological studies have shown that cat owners are more logical and practical than dog owners. They tend to be more introverted than dog owners. Cat owners, however, tell more stories about their cats than dog owners.
The record number of cats kept by any one person was by an owner named Jack Wright, from Ontario, Canada who kept 689 cats!
A house cat's genome is 95.6 percent tiger, and they share many behaviors with their jungle ancestors, says Layla Morgan Wilde, a cat behavior expert and the founder of Cat Wisdom 101. These behaviors include scent marking by scratching, prey play, prey stalking, pouncing, chinning, and urine marking.
Cats are believed to be the only mammals who don't taste sweetness.
Cats are nearsighted, but their peripheral vision and night vision are much better than that of humans.
Cats are supposed to have 18 toes (five toes on each front paw; four toes on each back paw).
Cats can jump up to six times their length.
Cats' claws all curve downward, which means that they can't climb down trees head-first. Instead, they have to back down the trunk.
Cats' collarbones don't connect to their other bones, as these bones are buried in their shoulder muscles.
Cats have 230 bones, while humans only have 206.
Cats have an extra organ that allows them to taste scents on the air, which is why your cat stares at you with her mouth open from time to time.
Cats have whiskers on the backs of their front legs, as well.
Cats have nearly twice the amount of neurons in their cerebral cortex as dogs.
Cats have the largest eyes relative to their head size of any mammal.
Cats make very little noise when they walk around. The thick, soft pads on their paws allow them to sneak up on their prey -- or you!
Cats' rough tongues can lick a bone clean of any shred of meat.
Cats use their long tails to balance themselves when they're jumping or walking along narrow ledges.
Cats use their whiskers to "feel" the world around them in an effort to determine which small spaces they can fit into. A cat's whiskers are generally about the same width as its body. (This is why you should never, EVER cut their whiskers.)
Cats walk like camels and giraffes: They move both of their right feet first, then move both of their left feet. No other animals walk this way.
Male cats are more likely to be left-pawed, while female cats are more likely to be right-pawed.
Though cats can notice the fast movements of their prey, it often seems to them that slow-moving objects are actually stagnant.
Some cats are ambidextrous, but 40 percent are either left- or right-pawed.
Some cats can swim.
There are cats who have more than 18 toes. These extra-digit felines are referred to as being "polydactyl."
A cat's average lifespan increased by a year over the span of time between 2002 and 2012, according to a study by Banfield Pet Hospital.
According to The Huffington Post, cats typically sleep for 12 to 16 hours a day.
Cats are crepuscular, which means that they're most active at dawn and dusk.
Cats are fastidious creatures about their "bathroom." If you have more than one cat, you should have one litter box for each.
Cats can spend up to a third of their waking hours grooming.
Cats live longer when they stay indoors.
Cats' purring may be a self-soothing behavior, since they make this noise when they're ill or distressed, as well as when they're happy.
Cats will refuse an unpalatable food to the point of starvation.
Despite popular belief, many cats are actually lactose intolerant.
Female cats have the ability to get pregnant when they are only 4 months old!
Grapes and raisins, as well as onions, garlic, and chives, are all extremely harmful foods for cats. Grapes and raisins can cause kidney failure -- although the reasoning behind that isn't clear. Meanwhile, onions, garlic, and chives wreak havoc on your cat's gastrointestinal system and can cause anemia.
If you keep your cat active during the day, he will sleep better at night. If you're not free-feeding your cat, you can also help her get a good night's sleep by providing her with a substantial evening meal.
It's believed that catnip produces an effect similar to LSD or marijuana in cats. The effects of nepetalactone -- the chemical in catnip that can makes cats crazy -- wears off within 15 minutes, and won't surface again for a few hours, even if your cat remains in sniffing distance.
Kittens can be spayed or neutered when they are only eight weeks old. If possible, these procedures should be performed in the first 5 months of your cat's life.
Male cats who have been fixed need fewer calories to maintain their weight.
Spaying and neutering can extend a cat's life. The Banfield Pet Hospital study found that neutered males live an average of 62 percent longer than unneutered cats and spayed females live an average of 39 percent longer than unspayed cats.
Your cat's grooming process stimulates blood flow to his skin, regulates his body temperature and helps him relax.
A cat with a question-mark-shaped tail is asking, "Want to play?"
According to Wilde, a slow blink is a "kitty kiss." This movement shows contentment and trust.
Cats have a unique "vocabulary" with their owner -- each cat has a different set of vocalizations, purrs and behaviors.
Cats have up to 100 different vocalizations -- dogs only have 10.
Cats find it threatening when you make direct eye contact with them.
Cats mark you as their territory when they rub their faces and bodies against you, as they have scent glands in those areas.
Cats may yawn as a way to end a confrontation with another animal. Think of it as their "talk to the hand" gesture.
Hissing is defensive, not aggressive, says Wilde. "It's an expression of fear, stress or discomfort of a threatened cat communicating 'stay away,'" she says.
If cats are fighting, the cat that's hissing is the more vulnerable one, says Wilde.
If your cat approaches you with a straight, almost vibrating tail, this means that she is extremely happy to see you.
Kneading -- which some people refer to as "making biscuits" -- is a sign of contentment and happiness. Cats knead their mothers when they are nursing to stimulate the let-down of milk.
Meowing is a behavior that cats developed exclusively to communicate with people.
When a cat flops over and exposes his belly, it's not always an invitation for a belly rub. A cat does this when he's relaxed and showing trust.
When cats hit you with retracted claws, they're playing, not attacking.
When dogs wag their tails, they may be expressing happiness. But this isn't the case for cats! When your cat wags her tail, it's her way of warning you that you are getting on her last nerve.
When your cat sticks his butt in your face, he is doing so as a gesture of friendship.
Whiskers are also good indicators of a cat's mood. When a cat is scared, he put his whiskers back. But when a cat is in hunting mode, he puts his whiskers forward.
Your cat drapes its tail over another cat, your dog, or you as a symbol of friendship.
Cats are very fussy about their water bowls; some prefer to ignore their bowls entirely in favor of drinking from the sink faucet.
Cats groom other cats -- and sometimes people -- in a ritual called allogrooming.
Cats like to sleep on things that smell like their owners, such as their pillows and dirty laundry (ick!).
Cats love to sleep in laundry baskets, too, because they're basically hiding places with peep holes.
Cats often attack your ankles when they're bored.
Certain cats go crazy for foods you wouldn't expect, like olives, potato chips, and the hops in beer.
For some reason, cats really dislike citrus scents.
If you can't find your cat, you should look in a box or a bag, as these are some of their favorite hiding spots!
Male cats who try to get to a female in heat can show very bizarre behavior -- for example, some have been known to slide down chimneys!
Many cats like to lick their owner's freshly washed hair.
Some cats love the smell of chlorine.
Thieving behavior is not uncommon among cats. They will often grab objects like stuffed animals, feather dusters, and other things that remind them of prey.
A green cat was born in Denmark in 1995. Some people believe that high levels of copper in the water pipes nearby may have given his fur a verdigris effect.
It turns out that Abraham Lincoln was a crazy cat president! He had four cats that lived in the White House with him.
Maria Assunta left her cat, Tomasso, her entire $13 million fortune when she died in 2011.
President Bill Clinton's cat, Socks, was a media darling during the Clinton administration and was said to receive more letters than the President himself.
Stubbs, a 17-year-old orange tabby, is mayor of the historic district of Talkeetna, Alaska.
A cat's learning style is about the same as a 2- to 3-year-old child.
A cat's purr vibrates at a frequency of 25 to 150 hertz, which is the same frequency at which muscles and bones repair themselves.
A group of kittens is called a "kindle."
A house cat could beat superstar runner Usain Bolt in the 200 meter dash.
About half of the cats in the world respond to the scent of catnip.
Cat breeders are called "catteries."
Cats can be toilet-trained.
Cats can drink sea water in order to survive. (In case you're wondering, we can't.)
Cats don't have an incest taboo, so they may choose to mate with their brothers and sisters.
Cats dream, just like people do.
Cats have contributed to the extinction of 33 different species.
Cats perceive people as big, hairless cats, says Wilde.
Cats were first brought to the Americas in colonial times to get rid of rodents.
Collective nouns for adult cats include "clowder," "clutter," "glaring," and "pounce."
Each cat's nose print is unique, much like human fingerprints.
Every Scottish Fold cat in the world can trace its heritage back to the first one, which was found in Scotland in the 1960s, says Cheryl Hogan, a Scottish Fold breeder and the committee chair for the breed at The International Cat Association (TICA).
It's not uncommon to see cats in food stores in big cities as a form of free -- and adorable -- pest control.
Kittens in the same litter can have more than one father. This is because the female cat releases multiple eggs over the course of a few days when she is in heat.
Male cats are the most sensitive to catnip, while kittens under 3 months old have no response at all.
Most world languages have a similar word to describe the "meow" sound.
People often think that they've stumbled over a purebred as a stray or in a shelter, but Hogan says that this is very uncommon. "Ninety-nine times out of 100 what you have found on the street will not be purebred anything," she says. "Very seldom do breeders sell kittens that are not already spayed or neutered," as purebred cats need to meet very strict standards.
Some 700 million feral cats live in the United States, and many shelters run trap-neuter-release programs to stem the population growth.
Studies suggest that domesticated cats first appeared around 3600 B.C.
The first known cat video was recorded in 1894.
There are about 88 million pet cats in the United States, which makes them the most popular pet in the country!
Two hundred feral cats prowl the park at Disneyland, doing their part to control rodents -- the ones who don't wear funny outfits and speak in squeaky voices.
White cats with blue eyes are prone to deafness.
Dogs can see in the dark because of the tapetum lucidum, a mirror-like membrane in dogs’ eyes. There are light-and-motion sensitive cells in the retina that are referred to as rods, which can tell the difference between light and shadow. The tapetum lucidum rebounds the light that the rods didn’t absorb into the retinas so they can take in more light. Dogs have evolved to be able to see better in dim light, yet they can’t do so as well as cats.
When dogs howl, they adjust the pitch according to what other dogs’ howls sound like so that theirs can appear unique.
A greyhound can run 45mph, compared to the average 19mph speed of most dogs. This makes them the fastest breed in the world, and the second fastest land animal behind the cheetah.
The only dog unable to bark is the Basenji from Central Africa. It is thought the ability was bred out of them because a barking dog would have historically betrayed people’s presence to enemies. The noise they make when excited is often described as yodelling.
The English term for a dog being ‘man’s best friend’ is also used in various other languages around the world.
Dogs have been known to detect various ailments in humans, from cancer to diabetes. A study at the Schillhohe Hospital in Germany found that dogs may be able to smell many organic compounds in the human body that show it isn’t working properly.
Dogs don’t like rain because the amplified sound hurts their sensitive ears.
The reason why dogs sometimes take treats or food to another area or room is because they think you are the alpha of the pack, and would prefer to eat in private where you won’t attempt to steal their food.
Licking is a way for a dog to demonstrate they are submissive towards someone who is more dominant than they are.
Dogs enjoy rolling around in dirt or rubbish because the odour masks their own smell. This was useful in the wild when hunting prey and trying to avoid being hunted themselves.
Although a dog only has 1,700 taste buds compared to the 9,000 a human has, some of them are sensitive to water. Since dogs are carnivores, it is thought their taste buds may have evolved in this way in order to maintain a balance of internal fluids after eating certain things, such as meat with high salt content. This is an ability that humans don’t possess.
Dogs are able to smell week-old human fingerprints.
The earliest European images of dogs date back 12,000 years ago to cave drawings found in Spain.
The Chow Chow and Shar-Pei both have black tongues, but the reason why is a mystery. They are thought to be the only two dog breeds that do, as every other one has a pink tongue.
It is thought that the shape of a dog’s face can indicate their lifespan. Those with flat faces are not considered to live as long as those with pointed faces.
A study at the University of Manchester conducted in 2006 found that around 50% of dogs tend to be left-pawed whilst 50% are right-pawed. This is interesting compared with the fact that 90% of humans are right-handed, and only 10% are left-handed.
Puppies have 28 teeth, after they have fully developed by eight weeks of age.
Dogs have 42 teeth, with six incisors and two canines at the front of the mouth, and lots of molars and premolars at the back.
The Newfoundland was originally bred to rescue people from drowning and assist fishermen with hauling their nets. As such, they have webbed feet and a water resistant coat.
Kubla Khan owned 5,000 Mastiffs, the most dogs owned by anyone.
A dog’s whiskers can sense minute changes in airflow. They are small, touch sensitive hairs are called vibrissae and are found above the eyes, on the muzzle and below the jaw.
Dalmatians can often suffer from deafness in one or both ears, with 30% of them experiencing this. This is because they don’t have many mature melanocytes (melanin producing cells) in their inner ears, which is common in dogs with a piebald or albino coat. It has also been discovered that Dalmatians with blue eyes are more likely to be deaf than those with brown, but the reason why is not yet known. Furthermore, Dalmatians with larger patches of dark pigment are less likely to be deaf.
Dogs can locate a sound source in 6/100ths of a second.
The entire body of a puppy is covered with nerve endings that are touch-sensitive, so it is unsurprising that the first sense a puppy develops is touch. They are born blind, deaf and toothless.
A dog’s shoulder blades are detached from their skeleton to allow for greater flexibility when running.
Sitting on someone’s feet is a dog’s way of staking their claim over them, according to experts.
Dogs have a third eyelid called a haw to protect the eye and help it to remain moist.
Walking around in circles to make their sleeping area as comfortable as possible dates back thousands of years to when dogs would make nests in grass.
Dogs have more than twelve separate muscles that control the movement of their ears.
Sometimes dogs roll around in something because they want to take the smell of it with them, if they particularly like it.
Puppies love games such as hide and seek! Hide, then call your pup's name so she can try to find you.
Dogs can learn more than 1000 words.
Big happy "helicopter" tail wagging is one sign of a really nice dog
Upright, stiff, rapid tail movement is not wagging or "friendly" but indicates a dog who's rather excited and focused.
Puppies grow to half their body weight in the first four to five months!
Puppies then take a year or more to gain the other half of their body weight.
Puppies can sleep 18 to 20 hours a day during that rapid body growth phase.
Dogs sometimes appear to smile -- much like humans -- with open mouth grinning. This may indicate a relaxed, submissive state.
Tired puppies get cranky just like little kids. If you have a fussy puppy, try nap time.
The fastest breed of dog, the Greyhound, can run up to 44 miles per hour.
Perky-eared dogs hear sounds better than floppy-eared dogs.
There are about 400 million dogs in the world.
The Labrador Retriever is the most popular breed, according to the American Kennel Club.
There are hundreds of breeds of dogs.
The average dog lives 10 to 14 years.
In general, smaller breeds live longer than larger breeds.
The world's oldest breed, the Saluki, originated in Egypt around 329 B.C.
According to a study shared by Cornell University, dogs were domesticated between 9,000 and 34,000 years ago.
Thomas Jefferson helped enact a dog tax in Virginia, because he was annoyed that dogs were killing his sheep.
Stroking dogs and gazing into their eyes releases the "feel good" hormone oxytocin for both people and dogs.
Dogs are omnivores -- they eat meat, grains and vegetables.
The heaviest breed, the Mastiff, weighs about 200 pounds.
More than half of all U.S. presidents have owned dogs.
President Calvin Coolidge owned at least a dozen dogs.
Just like human fingerprints, no two dogs' nose prints are alike.
Dogs can see best at dawn and dusk.
Dogs aren't colorblind but their eyes don't have receptors for red. They see in shades of black and white and also in shades of blue and yellow.
New puppies have heat sensors in their noses to help find their moms while their eyes and ears are closed.
A dog's sense of smell is reduced by up to 40 percent when he's overheated and panting.
Highly trainable dog breeds like Golden Retrievers, Labrador Retrievers, German Shepherds and Collies are more kid-friendly than some other breeds.
Bichons, Portuguese Water Dogs, Kerry Blue Terriers, Maltese and Poodles are all good choices if you have allergies since they shed less than other breeds.
More than one in three U.S. families owns a dog.
The average number of puppies in a litter is four to six.
There are nearly 14,000 animal shelters and rescue groups across North America.
Service dogs are recognized in the U.S. as "necessary medical equipment."
Therapy dogs, who bring healing to individuals and families by visiting hospitals, schools or retirement homes, differ from service dogs, who assist individuals who have disabilities.
The Newfoundland has a water-resistant coat and webbed feet.
As Disney's Cruella De Vil was aware, Dalmatian puppies are born pure white and develop spots as they grow older.
Dogs sweat through the pads of their feet.
Dogs have three eyelids, including one to keep their eyes moist and protected.
Chow Chows are born with pink tongues, which turn blue-black at 8 to 10 weeks.
Dogs are pack animals -- they don't enjoy being alone.
In ancient China, people kept warm by putting dogs up their sleeves.
Dogs who have been spayed or neutered live longer than intact dogs.
A bloodhound named Tigger holds the record for the longest ears, each measuring more than 13 inches.
Bingo is the name of the dog on the box of Cracker Jacks.
In 1969, Lassie was the first animal inducted into the Animal Hall of Fame.
The Alaskan Malamute can withstand temperatures as low as 70 degrees below zero.
Petting a dog can lower your blood pressure.
Stray dogs in Moscow have learned to ride the subway to find food.
Over half of dog owners include their dogs in annual holiday photos.
Although it was once illegal to keep dogs as pets in Iceland's capital city, the laws have been relaxed.
President Lyndon Johnson's beagles were named Him and Her.
One unspayed female dog, her mate and their puppies can produce 67,000 puppies in six years.
The Basenji is the only barkless dog.
Dogs are direct descendants of wolves.
Puppies are blind, deaf and toothless when born.
Dogs curl up to keep themselves warm and protect vital organs.
A dog's sense of smell is 10,000 times stronger than a human's.
The Norwegian Lundehund is the only dog with six toes on each foot.
Dogs can get jealous when their humans display affection toward someone or something else.
Dogs can be trained to detect cancer and other diseases in humans.
A dog's whiskers are used as sensing devices.
Three of the 12 dogs on the Titanic survived.
Your pup reaches his full size between 12 and 24 months.
The U.S. has the highest dog population in the world.
Rin Tin Tin was the first Hollywood dog star.
A dog's average body temperature is 101.2 degrees.
Many foot disorders in dogs are caused by long toenails.
The Boy Scouts and Girl Scouts both offer merit badges in dog care.
The Berger Picard, Miniature American Shepherd and Lagotto Romagnolo are the newest dog breeds recognized by the American Kennel Club in 2015.
Paul McCartney of the Beatles recorded a high pitched whistle at the end of "A Day in the Life" for his dog.
Max, Jake, Maggie and Molly are the most popular dog names.
Spiked dog collars were used to protect dogs' throats from wolf attacks in ancient Greece.
Walt Disney's family dog -- named Sunnee -- was the inspiration behind "Lady and the Tramp."
Teams of dogs compete for the fastest time without errors in Flyball races.
A German Shepherd named Orient accompanied her blind owner Bill Irwin as he became the first blind person to through-hike the 2,100-mile Appalachian Trail in 1990.
Chihuahuas are born with soft spots in their skulls, just like human babies.
Mastiffs wore armor and were sent after mounted knights in Roman times.
National Geographic's Dr. Brady Barr measured a dog's average bite force at 320 pounds of pressure per square inch.
Dogs are mentioned in the Bible more than 35 times.
Obesity is the top health problem among dogs.
Dachshunds were originally bred to fight badgers.
President Theodore Roosevelt's Bull Terrier Pete ripped the pants off French Ambassador Jules Jusserand.
The Border Collie, Poodle and Golden Retriever are considered the world's smartest dog breeds.
Smaller breeds of dogs mature faster than larger breeds.
Dogs have twice as many muscles to move their ears as humans, if you're looking for unusual facts about dogs!
Female dogs carry puppies for about nine weeks before birth.
Dogs are naturally submissive to any creature with a higher pack status.
The Chihuahua was named for the state in northwestern Mexico where they were discovered.
Dogs can be taught to count and solve simple math problems.
With love and a little patience, dogs can learn to walk backwards, salute and bow.
Pit bulls have been given a bad rap. BADRAP was started in the San Francisco Bay area on behalf of "pit bulls and their people" and was ranked nationally as a No. 1 high-impact nonprofit for animal welfare.
Revolutionary War soldiers sometimes brought their dogs with them into battle. Such was the case with George Washington and his dog, Sweetlips.
The American Water Spaniel was the first hunting breed developed to retrieve from boats.
Snakes are carnivores (meat eaters).
Snakes don’t have eyelids.
Snakes can’t bite food so have to swallow it whole.
Snakes have flexible jaws which allow them to eat prey bigger than their head!
Snakes are found on every continent of the world except Antarctica.
Snakes have internal ears but not external ones.
Snakes used in snake charming performances respond to movement, not sound.
There are around 3000 different species of snake.
Snakes have a unique anatomy which allows them to swallow and digest large prey.
Snakes are covered in scales.
Snakeskin is smooth and dry.
Snakes shed their skin a number of times a year in a process that usually lasts a few days.
Some species of snake, such as cobras and black mambas, use venom to hunt and kill their prey.
Snakes smell with their tongue.
Pythons kill their prey by tightly wrapping around it and suffocating it in a process called constriction.
Some sea snakes can breathe partially through their skin, allowing for longer dives underwater.
Anacondas are large, non-venomous snakes found in South America that can reach over 5 m (16 ft) in length.
Python reticulates can grow over 8.7 m (28 ft) in length and are considered the longest snakes in the world.
Venomous snakes have special glands and teeth designed to inject venom into their prey.
There are around 700 different species of venomous snakes. Around 250 of these are capable of killing a human with one bite.
As well as for attacking prey, snakes also use venom in self defence.
The most common way to effectively treat venomous snake bites is with anti-venom.
Snake venom can contain neurotoxins that attack the nervous system.
Taipans are large Australian snakes that have high levels of venom.
Australian brown snakes are highly dangerous and easily alarmed.
Sea snakes are some of the most venomous in the world.
Coral snakes are highly venomous but not usually aggressive, only biting as a last resort.
Vipers have long, hollow fangs used to inject venom.
When cobras are threatened they rear up and flatten their necks to appear larger.
The King Cobra is the longest snake in the world with the ability to inject venom. They can grow up to 5.6 m (18.5 ft) in length.
Rattlesnakes get their name from the rattle at the end of their tails. The snake shakes the rattle to warn or scare away predators.
The most common snake bites in North America are from rattlesnakes.
Black mambas get their name because of the black color inside their mouth.
Black mambas are the fastest snake in the world.
The decapitated head of a dead snake can still bite, even hours after death. These types of bites usually contain huge amounts of venom.[8]
What is considered the most “dangerous” snake depends on both a specific country’s health care and the availability of antivenom following a bite. Based on these criteria, the most dangerous snake in the world is the saw-scaled viper, which bites and kills more people each year than any other snake.
Snakes live on everywhere on Earth except Ireland, Iceland, New Zealand, and the North and South Poles.a[1]
Of the approximately 725 species of venomous snakes worldwide, 250 can kill a human with one bite.[18]
Snakes evolved from a four-legged reptilian ancestor—most likely a small, burrowing, land-bound lizard—about 100 million years ago. Some snakes, such as pythons and boas, still have traces of back legs.
Scientists believe humans are predisoposed to fear snakes
The fear of snakes (ophiophobia or herpetophobia) is one of the most common phobias worldwide. Approximately 1/3 of all adult humans are ophidiophobic, which suggests that humans have an innate, evolutionary fear of snakes.
The top 5 most venomous snakes in the world are the inland taipan, the eastern brown snake, the coastal taipan, the tiger snake, and the black tiger snake.
The warmer a snake’s body, the more quickly it can digest its prey. Typically, it takes 3–5 days for a snake to digest its meal. For very large snakes, such as the anaconda, digestion can take weeks.
Some animals, such as the Mongoose, are immune to snake venom.
To avoid predators, some snakes can poop whenever they want. They make themselves so dirty and smelly that predators will run away.
The heaviest snake in the world is the anaconda. It weighs over 595 pounds (270 kg) and can grow to over 30 feet (9m) long. It has been known to eat caimans, capybaras, and jaguars.
The Brahminy Blind Snake, or flowerpot snake, is the only snake species made up of solely females and, as such, does not need a mate to reproduce. It is also the most widespread terrestrial snake in the world.
If a person suddenly turned into a snake, they would be about 4 times longer than they are now and only a few inches thick. While humans have 24 ribs, some snakes can have more than 400.
The most advanced snake species in the world is believed to be the black mamba. It has the most highly evolved venom delivery system of any snake on Earth. It can strike up to 12 times in a row, though just one bite is enough to kill a grown man.
While the inland taipan is the world's most venomous snake, it is actually quite shy and placid
The inland taipan is the world’s most toxic snake, meaning it has both the most toxic venom and it injects the most venom when it bites. Its venom sacs hold enough poison to kill up to 80 people.
The death adder has the fastest strike of any snake in the world. It can attack, inject venom, and go back to striking position in under 0.15 seconds.
While snakes do not have external ears or eardrums, their skin, muscles, and bones carry sound vibrations to their inner ears.
Some snakes have been known to explode after eating a large meal. For example, a 13-foot python blew up after it tried to eat a 6-foot alligator. The python was found with the alligator’s tail protruding from its midsection. Its head was missing.
The word “snake” is from the Proto-Indo-European root *sneg-, meaning “to crawl, creeping thing.” The word “serpent” is from the Proto-Indo-European root *serp-, meaning “to crawl, creep.”
Rattlesnake rattles are made of rings of keratin, which is the same material as human hair and fingernails. A rattler will add a new ring each time it sheds its skin.
The heart of a shrimp is located in its head.
A snail can sleep for three years.
The fingerprints of a koala are so indistinguishable from humans that they have on occasion been confused at a crime scene.
Slugs have four noses.
Elephants are the only animal that can't jump.
It takes a sloth two weeks to digest its food.
Gorillas can catch human colds and other illnesses.
A newborn Chinese water deer is so small it can almost be held in the palm of the hand.
Ostriches can run faster than horses, and the males can roar like lions.
A lion in the wild usually makes no more than twenty kills a year.
The female lion does ninety percent of the hunting.
The world’s smallest dog was a Yorkshire Terrier, which weighed just four ounces.
Turtles, water snakes, crocodiles, alligators, dolphins, whales, and other water going creatures will drown if kept underwater too long.
Almost half the pigs in the world are kept by farmers in China.
On average, dogs have better eyesight than humans, although not as colorful.
Deer have no gall bladders.
There is an average of 50,000 spiders per acre in green areas.
Snakes are carnivores, which means they only eat animals, often small ones such as insects, birds, frogs and other small mammals.
In Alaska it is illegal to whisper in someone’s ear while they’re moose hunting.
The bat is the only mammal that can fly.
The leg bones of a bat are so thin that out of the 1,200 species of bats, only 2 can walk on ground. These are the Vampire bat and the Burrowing bat.
Some male songbirds sing more than 2,000 times each day.
The only mammals to undergo menopause are elephants, humpback whales and human females.
Blue-eyed lemurs are one of two (non-human) primates to have truly blue eyes.
A tarantula spider can survive for more than two years without food.
For every human in the world there are one million ants.
If you lift a kangaroo’s tail off the ground it can’t hop – they use their tails for balance.
If you keep a goldfish in a dark room, it will become pale!
Cows can sleep standing up, but they can only dream lying down.
The sentence “The quick brown fox jumps over a lazy dog.” uses every letter of the alphabet.
The average fox weighs 14 pounds.
The scientific name of the red fox is Vulpes vulpes.
Alligators can live up to 100 years.
A single elephant tooth can weigh as much as 9 pounds.
The turkey is one of the most famous birds in North America.
A housefly hums in the key of F.
During World War II, Americans tried to train bats to drop bombs.
Canis lupus lupus is the scientific name for a grey wolf.
To escape the grip of a crocodile’s jaw, push your thumb into its eyeballs-it will let you go instantly.
It is much easier for dogs to learn spoken commands if they are given in conjunction with hand signals or gestures.
Even a small amount of alcohol placed on a scorpion will make it go crazy and sting itself to death!
Male rabbits are called “bucks,” females are “does.”
The flamingo can only eat when its head is upside down.
Animals generate 30 times more waste than humans which is 1.4 billion tons every year.
Ants never sleep. Also they don’t have lungs.
A group of owls is called a parliament.
Just one cow gives off enough harmful methane gas in a single day to fill around 400 litre bottles.
Apple and pear seeds contain arsenic, which may be deadly to dogs.
Cows have one large stomach that is divided into four compartments to go through the different stages of digestion.
An anteater is nearly 6 feet long, yet its mouth is only an inch wide.
The blue whale weighs as much as thirty elephants and is as long as three Greyhound buses.
A herd of sixty cows is capable of producing a ton of milk in less than a day.
A grasshopper can leap 20 times the length of its own body.
At birth, baby kangaroos are only about an inch long – no bigger than a large water bug or a queen bee.
The smell of a skunk can be detected by a human a mile away.
There is a butterfly in Africa with enough poison in its body to kill six cats!
Cats have lived with people for only 7,000 years.
A black panther is really a black leopard.
The honey bee has been around for 30 million years.
The dumbest dog in the world is the Afghan hounds.
A cat has 32 muscles in each ear.
A dog’s shoulder blades are unattached to the rest of the skeleton to allow greater flexibility for running.
Tigers have striped skin as well as their fur.
Hippos can run faster than humans!
The Latin name for moose is alces alces.
The earliest European images of dogs are found in cave paintings dating back 12,000 years ago in Spain.
Baby horses can walk and run after just a few hours of being born.
The kangaroo’s ancestors lived in trees. Today there are eight different kinds of tree kangaroos.
A woodpecker can peck 20 times per second.
The great horned owl has no sense of smell.
Scientists have performed brain surgery on cockroaches.
The flea can jump up to 200 times its own height. This is equal to a man jumping the Empire State Building in New York.
Most elephants weigh less than the tongue of a blue whale.
The very first bomb that the Allies dropped on Berlin in World War Two hit an elephant.
A garden caterpillar has 248 muscles in its head.
A moth has no stomach.
George Washington’s teeth were made of elephant ivory, and walrus tusks.
Reindeer milk has more fat than cow milk.
Goats and sheep are seasonal breeders.
An elephant can smell water up to 3 miles away.
Deer can’t eat hay.
A skunk will not bite and throw its scent at the same time.
In 2003, Dr. Roger Mugford invented the “wag-o-meter” a device that claims to interpret a dog’s exact mood by measuring the wag of its tail.
Every day of the year, 100 whales are killed by whale fisherman.
If you cut off a snail’s eye, it will grow a new one.
The ostrich has two toes on each foot which gives it greater speed.
Lonomia obliqua is the world’s deadliest caterpillar.
‘Jaws’ is the most common name for a goldfish.
The most dogs ever owned by one person were 5,000 Mastiffs owned by Kubla Khan.
On average, cows poop 16 times per day!
The phrase “raining cats and dogs” originated in seventeenth-century England. During heavy rainstorms, many homeless animals would drown and float down the streets, giving the appearance that it had actually rained cats and dogs.
The most poisonous fish in the world is the stone fish.
Killer whales are not whales at all, rather a species of dolphin.
Goats were the first animals domesticated by man in 10,000 B.C.
Dogs have sweat glands in between their paws.
The fear of animals is called zoophobia.
We share 70% of our DNA with a slug.
We share 98.4% of our DNA with a chimp.
Fireflies do not bite or have pincers. Fireflies are harmless, they don’t even carry diseases.
Chocolate, macadamia nuts, cooked onions, or anything with caffeine is harmful to dogs.
No two tigers ever have the same stripes, and this is how individual tigers can be identified.
The American Kennel Club, the most influential dog club in the United States, was founded in 1884.
The longest recorded life span of a slug was 1 year, 6 months.
A whale’s heart beats only nine times a minute.
Elephants are covered with hair.
A ‘haw’ is the third eyelid of a cat, which can only be seen when the cat isn’t well.
A python can swallow a rabbit whole and may eat as many as 150 mice in a six-month period.
The placement of the eyes of a donkey enables them to see all four of their legs at all times.
At birth, a panda is smaller than a mouse and weighs about four ounces.
Oysters can change from one gender to another and back again depending on which is best for mating.
Fireflies are the only creatures that give off light without generating heat.
Hummingbirds beat their wings 60 to 80 times per second.
Only half of a dolphin’s brain sleeps at a time. The other awake half makes the dolphin come up for air when needed to prevent drowning.
Dogs have about 1,700 taste buds.
It takes 3,000 cows to supply the NFL with enough leather for a year’s supply of footballs.
A completely blind chameleon will still take on the colors of its environment.
A rodent’s teeth never stop growing.
When young abalones feed on red seaweed their shells turn red.
Small quantities of grapes and raisins can cause renal failure in dogs.
The hippopotamus is born underwater.
Taurophobia is the fear of bulls.
A bat can eat up to 1,000 insects per hour.
One million stray dogs and 500,000 stray cats live in New York City metropolitan area.
You can tell a turtle’s gender by the noise it makes. Males grunt, females hiss.
An elephant’s trunk has around 15,000 muscles. 200 litres of water is drunk from it per day.
The most popular female dog name is Maggie. The most popular male dog name is Max.
A large group of goats is called a herd.
Squirrels cannot see the color red.
The average chicken lays about 260 eggs per year.
A starving mouse will eat its own tail.
Only 5 to 10 percent of cheetah cubs make it to adulthood.
Ferrets sleep around 20 hours a day.
Birds can recognise landmarks, which they use to help them navigate.
The starfish is the only animal capable of turning its stomach inside-out.
Male dogs will raise their legs while urinating to aim higher on a tree or lamppost because they want to leave a message that they are tall and intimidating. Some wild dogs in Africa try to run up tree trunks while they are urinating to appear to be very large.
Sharks have been around longer than dinosaurs.
About two-thirds of shark attacks on humans have taken place in water less than six feet deep.
Sharks are immune to cancer!
Worldwide, more people eat and drink milk from goats than any other animal.
Alligators cannot move backwards.
The most popular dog breed in Canada, America, and Great Britain is the labrador retriever.
The largest giant squid ever found weighed 8,000 pounds.
Approximately 100 people die each year when they are stepped on by cows.
A butterfly has 12,000 eyes.
Humpback whales create the loudest sound of any living creature.
Hippo’s sweat is pink.
Whale milk is 50% fat.
In Croatia, scientists discovered that lampposts were falling down because a chemical in the urine of male dogs was rotting the metal.
In the Caribbean there are oysters that can climb trees.
The swan has over 25,000 feathers in its body.
The blue whale is the largest of all whales and is also considered the largest animal to have ever existed in the world.
Giraffes have no vocal cords.
Starfish have eight eyes – one at the end of each leg.
There are almost 60 million dogs in the United States.
After eating, a housefly regurgitates its food and then eats it again.
A mole can dig a tunnel 300 feet long in just one night.
Back in 1924, a monkey was convicted in South Bend of the crime of smoking a cigarette and sentenced to pay a 25 dollar fine!
Flamingos are pink because shrimp is one of their main sources of food.
The Mayans and Aztecs symbolised every tenth day with the dog, and those born under this sign were believed to have outstanding leadership skills.
When a male tiger and female lion mate they make a tigon, when a male lion and female tiger mate they make a liger.
French poodles did not originate in France – they came from Germany.
The breeding age for male goats is between 8-10 months.
Elephants don’t drink through their trunks like a straw.
Baby whales grow to a 1/3 of their mother’s length in the womb.
Goats do not have teeth in their upper front jaw.
Goat’s milk is higher in calcium, vitamin A and niacin than cow’s milk.
Turkeys have a poor sense of smell, but excellent sense of taste.
Cats can hear ultrasound.
Tuna fish can swim 40 miles in a single day.
Bumblebees have hair on their eyes.
Penguins can jump 6 feet out of water.
Giraffe hearts pump twice as hard as a cow’s to get blood to its brain.
Blue whales have large enough aortas (the main blood vessel) for a human to crawl through.
Some dogs can smell dead bodies under water!
More than 45 million turkeys are cooked and eaten in the US at Thanksgiving.
Baby whales can gain up to 200 pounds per day.
Dogs have a wet nose to collect more of the tiny droplets of smelling chemicals in the air.
Cats have over one hundred vocal sounds, while dogs only have about ten.
Cat owners are 30% less likely to suffer a heart attack.
Barn owls hunt mostly small mammals such as the short-tailed vole.
A ducks quack does echo, it’s just almost impossible to hear.
A cheetahs lifespan is up to 12 years in the wild.
Shark corneas are being used in human eye transplants.
Dogs are about as smart as a two or three-year-old child.
Butterflies have their skeletons on the outside of their bodies, this is known as the exoskeleton.
Arachnophobia is the fear of spiders.
Polar bears are the world’s largest land predators.
Hippos attract mates by urinating and defecating.
Butterflies can only see the colors red, green and yellow.
Yellowtail is the general name for loads of different species of fish that have yellow tails or a yellow body.
There are roughly twenty-four thousand species of butterflies.
A dik-dik is a tiny antelope that lives in East Africa, Namibia and Angola.
Dik-diks weigh between three and six kilogrammes.
Female polar bears normally start having baby cubs at the age of four or five.
Fireflies are also known as lightning bugs.
Noctule bats fly before sunset, whereas Pipistrelles appear soon after sunset.
In general, Asiatic jerboas have five toes on their back feet and African jerboas have three.
Even though a polar bears average body temperature is 37°C; they don’t give off any detectable heat, so they won’t show up in infrared photographs.
Dogs can see better when the light is low.
Dumbledore isn’t only the Headmaster of Hogwarts; in fact a dumbledore is an old English term for a type of bee.
Most young fireflies feed on nectar and pollen, although adult fireflies do not need to eat to survive.
79% of pet owners sleep with their pets.
Two dogs were among the Titanic survivors.
Many species of owls have special feathers for flying silently.
An elephant can smell water up to 3 miles away.
The animal on the Firefox logo is not a fox, but a red panda.
There is only one pink bottlenose dolphin which has been discovered, in an inland lake in Louisiana, USA.
China has the most goats in the world, they have over 170 Million.
A chicken with red ear lobes will produce brown eggs, and a chicken with white ear lobes will produce white eggs.
One survey reports that 33 percent of dog owners admit they talk to their dogs on the phone or leave messages on answering machines while they are away.
The average dog can run about 19 mph.
The owl has a small brain.
Snakes do not blink.
A squid’s eye can get as big as a basketball.
A puppy is born blind, deaf, and toothless.
Agrizoophobia is the fear of wild animals.
There are currently over a million animal species upon planet earth.
There are over 70,000 types of spiders spinning their webs in the world.
If you have a fear of chickens, then you actually have Alektorophobia.
Dogs can see in color, though they most likely see colors similar to a color-blind human.
Dogs have lived with humans for over 14,000 years.
There are 3,000 kinds of lice in the world.
The life of a housefly is only 14 days.
The lifespan of 75% of wild birds is 6 months.
Denmark has twice as many pigs as there are people.
National Dance Like A Chicken Day falls on 14th May every year.
The sailfish can swim at the speed of 109 km/h, making it the fastest swimmer.
The crocodile’s tongue is unmovable, as it is attached to the roof of its mouth.
Greyhounds are the fastest dogs on Earth and can run at speeds of 45 mph.
The Basenji is the worlds only bark-less dog.
Goats are quite agile creatures and in some cases they can jump over 5 feet.
In 2006, 253 fish-species were listed as critically endangered.
The hippopotamus’s skin is protected by its own pink oily secretion known as ‘pink sweat’.
The Tyrannosaurus Rex went extinct 65 million years ago.
The Irish deer is the largest deer to have ever existed. It went into extinction approximately 7,700 years ago.
It costs approximately $10,000 to train a federally certified search and rescue dog.
The color red doesn’t really make bulls angry; they are color-blind.
A herd of unicorns is called a blessing.
The oldest recorded elephant lived for 82 years.
According to records there are 50 million monkeys in the world!
There are an estimated 400 million dogs in the world.
Goats were the first animals to be used for milk by humans.
The U.S. has the highest dog population in the world. France has the second highest.
There are over 2700 types of snakes in the world and they live in deserts, forests, oceans, streams, lakes.
Cows from different areas have a different moo accent.
The male goat is called a “buck” or “billy”.
The female goat is called a “doe” or “nanny”.
A baby goat is called a “kid”.
Dog nose prints are as unique as human finger prints and can be used to identify them.
Ailurophobia is the fear of cats.
Ichthyophobia is the fear of fish.
Female bald eagles are 25% larger than males.
Frogs don’t drink water. They absorb water through their skin.
Suriphobia is the fear of mice.
There are over 210 breeds of goats in the world.
A polar bear’s outer fur is called ‘guard hair’.
An adult lion’s roar is so loud; it can be heard up to five miles away.
There is a shark called ‘goblin shark’ which has only been seen around 50 times since its discovery in 1897.
There are approximately 450 million goats around the world.
Dalmatians are completely white at birth.
A beaver’s teeth never stop growing.
Apiphobia is the fear of bees.
The average dolphin eats one-third of its weight on food each day.
Goats and octopus’ pupils of their eyes are rectangular.
African elephants only have four teeth to chew their food with.
The scales of a crocodile are made of certain, the same substance that hooves and fingernails are made of.
Crocodiles eat stones.
Crocodiles have brains no larger than a cigar.
Cheetahs were trained by man for hunting as long as 3000 BC.
Horses can’t vomit.
Both male and female caribou grow antlers.
Alternate American names for the Elk are the moose and the Wapiti.
A group of frogs is called an army.
Tigers can see 6 times better at night than humans.
Starfish don’t die of old age.
A male gorilla can eat 40 pounds of food a day.
A group of whales is called a pod.
Female harp seals get in groups to have their babies one mating season is over.
When giraffes age, their fur darkens.
Heron’s eggs have a greenish-blue pale color.
You are more likely to be killed by a champagne cork than by a poisonous spider.
All dolphins have a different whistle.
Scientists had to go 45 million years back in history to find the elephant’s oldest ancestor.
Tiger Day is the last Sunday in September.
There is no visual difference between male and female herons.
A full-grown bear can run as fast as a horse.
Hyenas regularly eat the faeces of other animals.
Frogs cannot swallow without blinking.
A giraffe has the same number of bones in its neck as a man.
Moose have very poor vision. Some have even tried to mate with cars.
The swan has over 25,000 feathers on its body.
African elephants have bigger ears than Indian elephants.
There is no record of a human being attacked by a healthy wolf.
Hummingbirds are the only birds who can fly backwards.
Dolphins can eat up to 30 pounds of fish a day.
There’s a spider in Brazil whose bites can cause an erection that lasts for hours!
There are no ants in Iceland, Greenland, and Antarctica.
Before they’re even born, sand tiger sharks eat their twin brothers and sisters!
Jellyfish evaporate in the sun. They’re 98% water.
Rooster is simply a male chicken.
Pikachu is a mouse type Pokémon.
Some lions mate over 50 times a day.
The Big Five is a group of animals of Africa: cape buffalo, elephant, leopard, lion and rhino.
The slowest fish is the sea horse, which moves along at about 0.01 mph (0.016 km/h).
Millions of trees are accidentally planted by squirrels that bury nuts and then forget where they hid them.
The lifespan of a bush baby is 14 years.